I've mentioned the phrase web application a number of times now,
and indeed, if we go and look at the location where we installed Tomcat,
that has a webapps folder,
and it's this webapps folder that holds these web applications.
So what exactly is a web application?
A web application we can think of as being a deployable
unit that contains the content of our app,
i.e.
the Java code, and any configuration needed for that application.
We'll see later on it contains a file called web.xml that we use to set
the various aspects of the application such as servlets,
filters, listeners, security, and anything else we feel the application needs.
When we browse to a web application,
we send our request to the application server,
and that server will be listening at some URL.
This is known as the base URL.
The complete URL will look something like this.
So that contains the server endpoint, so where we point our browser to,
and the item in red is the name of the application.
And then within the application we'll have our own endpoints,
maybe a page or maybe a server that we browse to.
The application, myapp in this case,
will be the code and the configuration that we copy into our web server,
or deploy to the web server to use the more correct phrase.
In the case of Tomcat, we deploy the application to the webapps directory,
and it'll then be available as part of the running instance of Tomcat.
The application may contain static content,
that would be any, for example,
HTML pages or images that make up the application,
or any JavaScript or CSS.
The application will also contain dynamically generated content,
and this dynamically generated content would be our
Java and our JavaServer Pages, so the servlets,
the listeners, and the filters that go into the application.
A Java web application, when it's deployed, has a standard structure.
If we take a look at one of the Tomcat applications,
for example the manager application,
we can see inside here it has a WEB-INF folder,
and it's this WEB-INF folder that contains many of the things that we need.
In here, for example, there's a web.xml file,
and that web.xml file contains the configuration.
This folder will also contain the classes and the libs
that go to make up the application.
You can also in here put JavaServer Pages,
and we'll see later on in the class why you might want to do this.
Other JavaServer Pages can also live in the root part of the application
along with any static content such as images or HTML.
As well as having a standard structure after they've been deployed,
there's also a standard deployment format for web applications,
known as a WAR or WAR file, also known as a web archive.
A web archive is simply a zip file with the extension .war.
And within the web archive,
you'll have exactly the same structure as the deployed application.
As we can see in the image here, there's a WEB-INF folder,
and inside that folder we'll have a classes folder that
contains the classes that make up the application,
a lib folder for any extra JARs that need to go along with the application,
and also again the web.xml file.
Many tools and IDEs support both the WAR format and also support
the ability to deploy to different web servers.
In fact,
one of the reasons we'll use Maven during this
class is to make deployment easier.
Maven can both create WAR files to allow us to deploy,
and then copy those WAR files into the appropriate directory.
With this information, we can now see how to deploy an application to Tomcat.
The first thing to understand is that Tomcat has a manager application.
This application is available from the home page, and it's at /manager/html.
In using this application,
we can manage the web applications that are deployed to Tomcat.
And here we can see the list of the applications,
and indeed there's the manager application itself.
We can start applications, we can stop applications,
and we can set some of the various configuration of those applications.
The manager application also has a tagged interface,
which is a scripting interface,
which allows us to run command line tools to deploy applications within Tomcat,
and we can do that from within Maven.
To access these applications, we have to set up some users within Tomcat.
And in Tomcat,
that's done from within a file called tomcat-
users.xml in the tomcat\conf directory.
For this file, I've added two roles,
a manager-gui role and a manager-script role,
and I've added two users, one called tomcat,
one called tomcat-script, both with the same password,
one in the manager-gui role and one in the manager-script role.
The manager-gui role gives me access to the HTML interface for the manager.
The manager-script role gives me access to the text interface for the manager,
that's the scripting interface.
The application we have here is called mvnblog.
This application has a single server inside it to
allow us to test the deployment,
and it has a Maven POM to allow it to deploy from the command line.
To allow me to deploy the application from inside Maven,
I've changed the POM file to include the Tomcat plugin.
This lets me call the manager scripting APIs to deploy applications to Tomcat.
I can then simply run this from the command line.
So if I head over to the command line and use mvn package tomcat7:redeploy,
we'll let this run,
and this'll build the application and package it and then build a WAR file
out of the package and then copy that WAR file into Tomcat.
And if I take a look at the Tomcat window,
we can see indeed that it says Deploying web application
archive\home\kevinj\tomcat\devapps\ mvnblog.war as the last line.
If we look at the Tomcat deployment directory,
indeed we'll see the mvnblog.war file there,
and we'll also see there the mvnblog folders.
The WAR file's been exploded into this folder,
and that folder contains exactly the same things that were in the WAR files,
the WEB-INF folder, web.xml, classes, and inside the classes there's a com,
mantiso, and there's my blogcontroller inside of the actual server itself.
Given that, I can now to go the browser,
and from the browser I can browse to mvnblog/controller,
and there we see the result of the deployment. The application's been correctly deployed.